Fri Aug 18 23:46:31 CEST 2023

Sat Aug 19 01:19:42 CEST 2023


die schweizer armee hat wieder angefangen mit terror

scheinbar geben die sihc jetzt nicht mal mehr die mühe eine kognitive dissonanz zu häucheln und schlagen einfach direkt über medulla spinalis neuralink zu

alle gutartigen gleichaltrigen und jüngeren mesnchen von der strasse gehen und gefahrenquellen meiden

heute ist das spiel vermutlich: länger häucheln dass alles i.O. sei und keine autoraser die das verraten würden, aber auch gut, dann haben alle weniger autolärm

Sat Aug 19 01:21:17 CEST 2023

die blockierung des hostpoint ssh ist jetzt scheinbar interaktiv zu meinem eeg, und massiv viele fehler, der terrorist ist richtig unbegabt oder schon psychotsich

Sat Aug 19 01:22:22 CEST 2023


Sat Aug 19 04:38:06 CEST 2023
dann jetzt seit etwa 3h, pädo blah tschöck, pädo blah pfisterer, pädo-bla dann pivot element zu ingolds telli

zuvor blah drogen hypnose durch pfisterer

schlussendlich wäre das vermtulcih da das militärsiche neurlalink glasfaser netzwerk zu spammen


Sat Aug 19 04:39:13 CEST 2023

Sat Aug 19 04:52:10 CEST 2023
dann einige Gruppen wie die von yomapeach haben nsfw content im eingangsmeldung, die sind oft so um 20 jahre alt, das wird dann allenfalls dazu führen dass sie auch content produzeren, mit content den sie konsumiert haben erpresst werden, damit zu amokläufern oder suizidanten abgreichtet werden

wie z.B der fall des jungen der sagt dass jetzt das leben seiner freundin zerstört sei weil jemand sticker von ihrem content gemacht wurde

Sat Aug 19 04:54:38 CEST 2023

ich will eigentlich den content der ganz jungen gar nicth anschauen, aber sollte man allenfalls mal mit z.B yomapeach sichten, allenfalls besser aquila, und nciht hintendruch sondern mit den admins reden und dann zusammen allenfalls korrigeren, bugs reparieren, z.B. wenn es content mit eStim über herz gibt sagen dass das gar keine gute idee ist.....

Sat Aug 19 04:55:58 CEST 2023

i dont want to mansplain, but in your younger group your welcome message suggests nsfw content

i NEVER klicked on that, but do you have a look at this conetnt?


pNj 

estim herz

blood = bad

bit of a red ass ... maybe ok if consensual

blackmail / there is a case where somenone made sticker and ruined life

please cantact 1x medic student from your age or better someone young wit real medical doctor degree and remove eg. such content

and also explain your group that if they create such content for same age people, always click on the butten "dont show in my country" — because if your chief, moter, teacher woud find that material you will have lot of nasty situations, wirst case someone dies — sexual integrity is one of the main reasons for suicide attempts

also suggest take one equal aged psychology student and talk about consensuality, how to find out if content is rape, eg. if there is lot of pain ... but at the beginning and the end of the video the slave says that was fun then one can speculate that it was consensual

jüngere sollten es nicth ausweisen müssen ältern gegenüber

just in case justice or police (or someone that says he would be police question that) at least in swiss law even in curt when you would have consumed pedophilia content then the content would not be shown i ncurt

there was a case ins switzerland where a judge sued a 16 jear old girl that produced "pedophilia content" — in my opinion, the pedophila article is to protect joung people, not to sue them. the content endet up in the privat datensammlung of the judge, perfect example what justice should not do

LIZENZ -> grad noch besser machen

Sklaven-Vertrag -> spoiler funktion (be careful many older man already thrown away thjeir value system, dont judge the others based on my slave contract, many are lazy, ignorant, fat, not epilated, and dont care about the schicksal of future generation. 

if your group does or consumes bdsm it is important t
there 


Sat Aug 19 ~ 04:00:00 CEST 2023


yet another long letter i wrote only for you p and for y

i dont want to mansplain, but in your younger group your welcome message suggests nsfw content

i NEVER klicked on that, but do you have a look at this conetnt? in my world-view this things should be done between same-age people, i would feel like a peodphile if i would consume content from people 20 years younger than me. the other direction is ok, for the older people its good for their self-seteem if young people like their content. i always mock: "well im 20 years older, maybe i can not call him or her a pedophie" -- importnat is that in my case older people cause serius demage if the consume my content, worst case would be if people i personally know and are much older than me would see the content i (1978) created for claudine (1979), but if same-age people or younger people consume that it's completely ok for me. reason for that is a really bad childhood in the cellar


yoma & peach 

estim herz

blood = bad

bit of a red ass ... maybe ok if consensual

blackmail / there is a case where somenone made sticker and ruined life

please cantact 1x medic student from your age or better someone young wit real medical doctor degree and remove eg. such content

and also explain your group that if they create such content for same age people, always click on the butten "dont show in my country" — because if your chief, moter, teacher woud find that material you will have lot of nasty situations, wirst case someone dies — sexual integrity is one of the main reasons for suicide attempts

also suggest take one equal aged psychology student and talk about consensuality, how to find out if content is rape, eg. if there is lot of pain ... but at the beginning and the end of the video the slave says that was fun then one can speculate that it was consensual

jüngere sollten es nicth ausweisen müssen ältern gegenüber

just in case justice or police (or someone that says he would be police question that) at least in swiss law even in curt when you would have consumed pedophilia content then the content would not be shown i ncurt

there was a case ins switzerland where a judge sued a 16 jear old girl that produced "pedophilia content" — in my opinion, the pedophila article is to protect joung people, not to sue them. the content endet up in the privat datensammlung of the judge, perfect example what justice should not do

if your group does or consumes bdsm it is important to differ between pain and violence, pain can be consensual and make fun, violence is reason for suicide

best case in such scenes is if the slave (maybe me) must beg for pain in the video, so people know that it is not rape-porn.

eg. she would say (and she has maybe a medcal doctors degress) and maybe i would be alread stripped but can move my head: "kiss me if you would like to have 1h pain, but after you kissed me you will have no posibility to stop the pain, i will finish it. maybe there is also important that she has a doctors degree, so she would know what she can do for the medical perspective to stay save

bdsm is also not bad, it incresases the stressresistenz, people learn to handle pain without eg. getting mad or worse. learnign more about psychology, neurology and such things ...

but i guess in your age maybe ABDL is the thing. playing like babies with napies, schnuller, ... stupid people think ABDL is about Pedophilia, but it is not if two same-age people do this. pedophilia is defined by age diffenece by law

some peole had a really bad childhood. if you are two same-age people that really love each other wearing napies will possibliy unlock memories from your childhood and maybe help to become more sane. and its also fun. then if you do ABDL or BDSM, it's not mainly about having sex, it's more some sort of psyhcology oder medicine lesson.

it is very helpful to write a "slave diary", like you debug computer software, you maybe also want to log the things that happenbs

AND WARNING, ABDL and BDSM can lead to psychological problems as they can fix. so diary helps if something goes wroing. maybe you have seen the simpsons where hoomer gets hypnotised and then completely gets insane, such things can happen, so it is maybe also not bad to have a number of a SAME AGE medical and psychology person you really can trust.

and it is important to create the rules for the weekest or most hurt of your same-age people. in our community thats maybe me, i was a cellar kid and autistic, isolated, isolation then causes tons of follow up porblems, but i had a computer and developed reasonal hacking skills

revictimizing, reparenting

practice of sexual design

A) to enslave humanity <- GFY
B) to teach, learn, develop same-age and younger people <3 <3

to develop a person, only someone with more wertesystem und moral can be the dominant part, if the person with the lower moral would be the dominant person then it is not just stupid, it is bad for society. normally claudine is much better in literature, medicine (she studied that) but with computers (i studied computer science) she is really not the person to ask if you have problems with technology. but im dominant to in this topic, she improved her compujter science skills, i improved my wertesystem und psychologie skills (medical doctors also have psycholog lessions)

you can copy this as is, you dont need to care for my personal rights, im fine with that.


