Abstract In many societies, family members are now the
primary caregivers of mental health patients, taking on respon-
sibilities traditionally under the purview of hospitals and med-
ical professionals. The impact of this shift on the family is
high, having both an emotional and economic toll. The aim
of this paper is to review the main changes that occur in family
dynamics for patients with schizophrenia. The article ad-
dresses three central themes: (i) changes in the family at the
onset of the disorder, (ii) consequences for family members
because of their caregiver role, and (iii) family interventions
aimed at improving the complex dynamics within the family.
After analyzing and discussing these themes, it is observed
that despite advances in the field, the viability of taking care
of a patient with schizophrenia by the family remains a chal-
lenge. Improving care will require commitments from the
family, the mental health service system, and local and nation-
al governments for greater investments to improve the quality
of life of society in general and individuals with schizophrenia
in particular.
Keywords Schizophrenia . Family . Impact . Dynamic . Care
This article is part of the Topical Collection on Schizophrenia and Other
Psychotic Disorders
* Alejandra Caqueo-Urízar
acaqueo@uta.cl
Mar Rus-Calafell
maria.rus-calafell@kcl.ac.uk
Thomas K. J. Craig
t.craig@iop.kcl.ac.uk
Matias Irarrazaval
mirarrazavald@u.uchile.cl
Alfonso Urzúa
alurzua@ucn.cl
Laurent Boyer
Laurent.BOYER@ap-hm.fr
David R. Williams
dwilliam@hsph.harvard.edu
1 Escuela de Psicología y Filosofía, Universidad de Tarapacá, Avenida
18 de Septiembre 2222, Arica, Chile
2 Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Harvard School of
Public Health, 677 Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA 02115-6018,
USA
3 Department of Health Service and Population Research, Institute of
Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King’s College London,
London, UK
4 Departamento de Psiquiatría, Facultad de Medicina, Hospital Clínico
Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile
5 Instituto Milenio para la Investigación en Depresión y Personalidad,
Santiago, Chile
6 Universidad Católica del Norte, Avda. Angamos 0610,
Antofagasta, Chile
7 Aix-Marseille University, EA 3279 – Public Health, Chronic
Diseases and Quality of Life – Research Unit,
13005 Marseille, France
8 Department of African and African American Studies, Harvard
University, Cambridge, MA, USA
Curr Psychiatry Rep (2017) 19: 2
DOI 10.1007/s11920-017-0756-z
Introduction
The Effect of Schizophrenia on Families at the Beginning
of the Disorder
Schizophrenia is a mental health disorder that is associated
with high illness costs in a number of different respects.
Although some will fully recover, a considerable portion of
the patients suffers from long-term disability, which often in-
cludes irregular episodes [1]. Families play key roles in the
early stages of the disease when help is first being sought. In
addition, families provide long-term care and continued sup-
port for people experiencing schizophrenia with most of pa-
tients continuing or returning to live with relatives [2]. The
caregiver role is often difficult and exerts a significant impact
on the carer’s own mental health [3]. Over a third of family
caregivers reported a high level of perceived burden and dif-
ficulties coping with their child’s or spouse’s illness [4–9].
Soon after diagnosis, carers experience a range of different
negative emotions as they attempt to deal with the diagnosis of
a family member [10, 11]. However, some family members
fare better than others do in terms of their wellbeing in the
carer role. This response depends on many different factors.
One of the most important aspects in the caregiver response
is the cognitive appraisal processes related to the illness. That
is, how they interpret and make sense of the illness and the
extent to which they feel they are capable of coping with the
problems [12]. A negative illness perception on the part of
relatives has been linked to heightened patient distress, which
also predicts distress many months later, indicating the value
of assessing and understanding the caregiver’s adaptation to
the disease [13–16]. Another aspect that increases distress in
relatives is the age of the patient at diagnosis and of the onset
of service use, especially if the family assessment of the costs
of the illness is low [17, 18].
The factors that affect the relatives’ responses to the
illness are not only associated with family processes but
are also related to the help-seeking experience. Relatives
can feel excluded from the doctor–patient consultation pro-
cess and experience negative attitudes directed toward
them by health professionals. Mental health professionals
have been criticized for under-appreciating the importance
of conveying a schizophrenia diagnosis clearly and without
bias, in particular of being judgmental instead of support-
ive and empathetic to the patient and the relatives [19•].
This is supported by research showing that patients pre-
ferred knowing that they had schizophrenia rather than
not knowing what was wrong with them and suffering from
uncertainty [20, 21]. Clear communication of the relevant
information about their disease helps the patients make
informed decisions about their own healthcare and adjust
to their illness [20]. In addition, positive early interactions
and clear communication with healthcare providers may
also reduce the level of distress experienced by family
members [22•]. It is recommended that contact with care-
givers should be planned and included early in diagnostic
discussions to prevent the expression of negative attitudes
against the patients and to improve the outcomes of treat-
ment [19•].
The help-seeking experience can also produce contra-
dictory emotions, such as fear, guilt, and relief, in family
members, which may in turn affect their own relationships
and self-confidence. This can be both stressful and trau-
matic for the family [22•], particularly shortly after diag-
nosis, when interactions with healthcare providers are of-
ten tinged with despair. Whereas some individuals describe
their interactions with mental health professionals as posi-
tive and the providers as compassionate toward the patient
and family [23], some family members feel dismissed and
provided with insufficient information. Thus, during this
early period following initial diagnosis, the relationships
between individual family members and healthcare pro-
viders are of central importance, potentially setting the
stage for the overall experience and perception of the care-
giver burden.
Additional factors that affect both the caregiver’s and
patient’s wellbeing are the interactions within and between
families. Notably, different family environments affect the
coping strategies used by families during acute schizo-
phrenic episodes. These can predict the recurrence of epi-
sodes in the future and the overall course and outcome of
the disorder. Familial attitudes toward the patient and their
effect on the patient’s risk of relapse have been studied
under the expressed emotion (EE) framework, with high
levels of EE prognostic of worsening symptoms and future
psychiatric episodes [4, 24]. High levels of EE within a
family may in part be a reflection of the overall caregiver’s
burden and the manifestations of symptoms in the patients
[25]. However, high-EE families of schizophrenia patients
show a number of maladaptive behaviors. These include
the frequent internalization of criticisms and/or inadequate
expression of emotions and thoughts in response to criti-
cisms from both patient and caregiver, which can increase
the risk for relapse. In addition, EE correlates with the level
of family cohesion and flexibility and with family burden,
which appears to determine whether the household can
change from a high-EE to low-EE family [21, 25].
From this analysis, we conclude that the impact of
schizophrenia on the family is complex. Factors contribut-
ing to this complexity are the lack of provision of sufficient
information about the diagnosis by healthcare providers,
the family’s reactions to the diagnosis and the patient, poor
bidirectional communication between the family and pa-
tient, and ineffective coping strategies within the family
environment that can affect the level of symptoms and
increase the occurrence of relapses.
2 Page 2 of 8 Curr Psychiatry Rep (2017) 19: 2
Consequences for Family Members Because of Their Role
of Care
Role theory states that having a patient with schizophrenia
disrupts normal family dynamics, with every family member
affected in some manner and many caregivers’ roles even
being annulled [26–30]. Caring effects refers to the impact
of providing care on the family in terms of individual, social,
and economic changes [31]. Mental and physical health are
significantly affected [32], with caregivers of patients of
schizophrenia reporting worse health status than non-
caregivers or caregivers of patients with other disorders, such
as Alzheimer’s disease or epilepsy [33•]. Families of psychi-
atric patients are affected by their role as caregivers on many
levels, including lowering their quality of life and their ability
to provide care [34–41]. Thus, the quality of life is defined by
the level of caregiver’s health and wellbeing relative to differ-
ent dimensions of their lives [42]. One of the biggest factors
influencing the caregiver’s psychosocial burden is the course
of the disorder. The positive symptoms of the schizophrenia
patient have a clear impact; however, negative symptoms,
such as impaired working memory and executive functioning,
can also decrease caregivers’ quality of life [30, 43–46].
Low caregiver quality of life often manifests as physical
illness, the loss of vitality, and depressive and anxiety disor-
ders [46–50]. These symptoms can be triggered by the unre-
lenting concerns of a caregiver, including being adequately
competent to advise and assist the patient to adjust [30], man-
aging patient’s behavior and work and social interactions [51],
and concerns about the patient’s future [30, 40]. These factors
affect the level of psychological distress experienced by the
caregiver and can affect the overall caregiver experience [52•,
53–56].
Another significant deterioration experienced by the
family (reported by up to one-third of family members) is
the disconnection with other family members due to the
existence of a mental disorder within the family [57–59].
This is also related to the stigma experienced by the family
members [52•, 60–62] and to the low levels of social sup-
port that they usually receive [4, 43, 63]. Financial issues
can also have negative consequences on family dynamics.
These arise in part due to the limited capacity of the patient
to work. In addition, the time burden on the caregiver re-
quired for patient care frequently prevents the caregiver
from taking on full-time work as well [47].
Although most of the consequences of caring for a patient
with schizophrenia tend to be negative, in recent years, some
carers have begun to identify more positive and beneficial
aspects of this role (e.g., feelings of been more sensitive, use-
ful, and needed and a higher sense of strength) [33•, 64, 65].
Other changes deriving from the establishment of the diagno-
sis can have positive effects on the members of the family.
These can include improvement of the family dynamics, such
as having more social support, having a job outside the home
(for both patient and caregivers), and being treated through
family interventions.
Assessing the impact of caregiving on families of
schizophrenia patients is an important consideration not
only for the wellbeing of the family but also for the health
of the patients. Healthcare professionals need to recognize
this issue and integrate such assessments into their treat-
ment decisions, working more directly with the family to
improve outcomes for the patient. Family experiences
should be comprehensively assessed either on the individ-
ual level via interviews or on the group level (e.g., by
using a focus group of caregivers). Standardized question-
naires, which have been validated with varying evidence
[4, 46, 66, 67], may be of use in both clinical practice and
research, leading to easier, objective, and reproducible
assessments. However, the critical question for clinicians
and researchers is which tool in their practice is the most
relevant for this context. Several factors should be con-
sidered in making this choice. First, the questionnaire de-
sign should be a key factor. Because of discrepancies be-
tween families and experts’ perspectives [68], a question-
naire based on the subjects’ perceptions should be pre-
ferred. However, few of the existing questionnaires are
based on the caregivers’ and families’ views. Second,
the performance of the questionnaire should be validated
in terms of its effectiveness [69], taking into consideration
psychometric properties such as internal consistency, con-
struct validity, and sensitivity to change. However, this
information is not available for several commonly used
instruments, and there is a particular lack of information
regarding the sensitivity to change. This is a major prob-
lem for clinicians, especially when evaluating interven-
tions such as psychoeducational or therapeutic programs.
Third, the language in which questionnaires were devel-
oped is a factor. The direct translation of a questionnaire
may be inadequate due to some concepts, such as quality
of life and burden of care, being affected by cultural back-
ground. Such translations must be subjected to strict
transcultural validation protocols, making it preferential
in most cases to use questionnaires within their country
of origin [12].
Finally, another existing assessment, the dyadic approach,
could be of the utmost interest for clinicians but has been
rarely explored in research. This approach globally incorpo-
rates the interactions between the patient and family to design
interventions that address the needs of both groups. This ap-
proach has been used effectively in dementia patients to ad-
dress both their mental and physical health [70, 71]. However,
this approach has not yet been used to test interventions on the
schizophrenia patient-caregiver dyad, and the impact of fam-
ily interventions on the burden and quality of life of caregivers
is currently unknown.
Curr Psychiatry Rep (2017) 19: 2 Page 3 of 8 2
Family Interventions
Family interventions (FI) for schizophrenia consist of a com-
bination of psychotherapeutic strategies aimed at developing a
working relationship between the family and the medical team
to support patient recovery [72]. FIs are recommended as
evidence-based interventions and treatment of choice by some
of the most important worldwide mental health institutions,
including the American Psychiatric Association (APA) [73]
and the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence
(NICE) [74, 75].
Well-established research findings show that family in-
terventions for people with schizophrenia spectrum disor-
ders can prevent relapse and hospitalizations, increase
medication adherence, maintain satisfactory family inter-
actions, and have a positive impact on both patients’ and
relatives’ quality of life [76–78]. On top of these positive
achievements, recent clinical trials have also shown that
FIs can improve participants’ cognitive dysfunction [79]
and relatives’ guilt induction, dominance, and empathy
[80]. In terms of maintenance of these results, longitudinal
studies such as the one conducted by Ran and colleagues
confirm that the effects are enduring [81].
No gold standard approach has been established. FIs usu-
ally include psychoeducation, stress management, emotional
processing, assertive communication, cognitive reappraisal,
and structured problem solving [31]. FIs are always conducted
by mental health providers; however, they can differ in their
theoretical basis, modality, and length. Advanced research in
this field aims to investigate the mechanisms of change for
these interventions. A recent systematic review conducted by
Grácio, Gonçalves-Pereira, and Leff (2015) aimed to tease out
the therapeutic process involved in FIs [82•]. These authors
carefully analyzed the results of 22 relevant studies in order to
discover the key elements of FIs, concluding that, following
efficacy parameters, there are three key elements for a suc-
cessful process: therapeutic alliance, education, and training in
coping skills. When considering the participants’ and rela-
tives’ points of view, the key elements are reduced to educa-
tion, human connection (that can be also understood as thera-
peutic alliance), and reframing.
Format delivery and duration have been also targeted as
potential mediators of change. According to Sin and col-
leagues, there are four main categories of format delivery:
individual (therapist seeing a relative of the whole family);
groups (relatives attend sessions together); mixed (a combina-
tion of the two previous options); or other (any format that
differs from the previous ones). Overall, duration of the inter-
vention ranges between 4 and 36 weeks, inclusive of 6 to 12
weekly or biweekly sessions [83]. Unfortunately, findings
supporting an ideal and successful design for the type of de-
livery and duration of the program are inconclusive, and fur-
ther meta-analyses are needed.
Finally, it is important to highlight that FIs are well accept-
ed by both participants and relatives and that they express high
levels of satisfaction when ending the programs [83, 84, 85•].
By using qualitative methods, it has been shown that partici-
pants and relatives commonly consider FIs a space “to listen
to and share experiences” (a safe space) [83], to improve com-
munication between family members [86], to better under-
stand the illness and its impact on the individual, and to learn
problem solving skills [87].
However, two big challenges remain that are related to FIs:
the professional’s training and the implementation of the in-
tervention. Overcoming these two related challenges will have
a tremendous impact on the access of patients and relatives to
FIs. Staff training is required in order to disseminate the ap-
proach in conjunction with mental health services. However,
some barriers that prevent clinicians and researchers from
accessing training and implementing FIs exist. Notably, ac-
cess to clinical supervision that provides specific training on
adequate skills and the confidence to deal with family prob-
lems are some of the most common training needs reported by
staff [76]. Furthermore, protected time and support from the
management system and organization are prerequisites for
clinicians to go in depth into FI training and to incorporate it
into their daily work routine. In this regard, Eassom and col-
leagues claim that successful implementation of FIs critically
depends on a change in organizational culture regarding the
role of the family in the treatment process (e.g., prioritizing
working with families) [76]. Discrete evidence-based FIs can
be a solution because they do not require therapists trained to
an expert level. Instead, evidence-based FIs can be delivered
by frontline mental health professionals, being less dependent
upon a redesign of services to undertake the work [88].
Online interventions may offer another potential solution to
those looking for support and seeking information about
schizophrenia. Technological advances and digital media are
creating a revolution in healthcare that is also affecting the
implementation and dissemination of FIs. Interestingly,
R o t o n d i a n d c o l l e a g u e s d e s i g n e d a w e b - b a s e d
psychoeducational intervention for people with schizophrenia
and their supporters (the “schizophrenia online access to re-
sources” website or SOAR) [89, 90•]. People who participated
in the pilot study and were given access to the website showed
a greater reduction of symptoms as well as a better under-
standing of their illness. Furthermore, their relatives/
supporters also showed a better understanding of the progno-
sis, in comparison to their counterparts receiving only routine
care. Furthermore, the authors found a positive relationship
between symptom reduction and the frequency of access to
the online resources [89]. These authors are currently
conducting a randomized controlled trial that aims to compare
the SOAR to in-person, multi-family, psychoeducational treat-
ment, and to treatment as usual (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier:
NCT02032680). Results of this trial are estimated to be
2 Page 4 of 8 Curr Psychiatry Rep (2017) 19: 2
available in 2018. Focusing on first-episode psychosis, Sin
and colleagues has also designed an online multicomponent
psychoeducational intervention for siblings of individuals
with a first-episode psychosis [91] (http://siblingpsychosis.
org/, ISRCTN01416694). This innovative intervention
combines two major components (psychoeducation and peer
support) and has been built with the input of an expert
advisory group that comprises siblings, parents, service
users, mental health clinicians, youth organization personnel,
and e-learning IT experts. Results of this rigorous clinical trial
are expected to be available at the end of 2016.
Conclusion
Several decades have passed since the deinstitutionalization of
mental health patients. With the noblest intentions, this pro-
cess also highlighted the lack of resources that families and
community supporters had to help people experiencing
schizophrenia. Major steps have been made in the provision
of mental healthcare since this decision was made back in the
1950s. However, the establishment of a diagnosis of schizo-
phrenia spectrum disorder can still have a negative effect on
the individual and on his/her family and friends, which im-
plies that the diagnosis requires the readjustment of the whole
family to the new situation.
Specific changes in the dynamics, areas of conflict, needs,
maladaptive behaviors (e.g., EE), and protective factors in the
patient’s family must be assessed by clinicians as soon as the
diagnosis is communicated. In addition, FIs should be offered
regularly to families since they have been shown to be effec-
tive in improving symptomatology, illness awareness, and sat-
isfaction levels in both patients and relatives. If this process is
done properly, a successful recovery process and an improve-
ment in the quality of life is much more likely to happen.
Politicians, clinicians, researchers, and community workers
are fully aware that families are in need of greater support and
resources to be able to cope with the consequences of schizo-
phrenia. Staff training and implementation of FIs can have a
tremendous impact on the lives of patients and family. These
actions, therefore, should be implemented and offered to ser-
vice users and their relatives in every single outpatient mental
health service around the world.
Acknowledgements This research was funded by the Universidad de
Tarapacá through Proyecto Mayor de Investigación Científica y
Tecnológica UTA n°3732-16 and the Convenio de Desempeño UTA-
MINEDUC.
Compliance with Ethical Standards
Conflict of Interest The authors declare that they have no conflict of
interest.
Human and Animal Rights and Informed Consent This article does
not contain any studies with human or animal subjects performed by any
of the authors.
References
Papers of particular interest, published recently, have been
highlighted as:
• Of importanc